feat(containers): mdbook tutorial (#3856)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/deploy-mdbooks-serverless-containers/index.mdx

> onf---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
```

---
meta:
  title: Fast deployment of documentation on Serverless Containers with mdbooks

>   description: Step-by-step guide to deploy mdbooks on Serverless Containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Step-by-step guide to deploy mdbooks on Scaleway Serverless Containers.
```

content:

>   h1: Deploying mdbooks on Serverless Containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: Fast deployment of documentation on Serverless Containers with mdbooks
```

>   paragraph:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph: Step-by-step guide to deploy mdbooks on Scaleway Serverless Containers.
```

tags: docker container deploy serverless
hero: assets/scaleway-umami.webp
categories:
  - containers
  - container-registry
dates:
  validation:
  posted:
---

Publish modern online books, for product, API documentation, tutorials, course material or anything that requires a clean, easily navigable and customizable presentation.

> **Goal** this tutorial uses `mdbooks` to publish simple documentation but the main goal of this tutorial is to show how simple it is to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial uses `mdbooks` to publish simple documentation but the main goal of this tutorial is to show how simple it is to
```

pick a project, package it inside an image and deploy it on Serverless Containers.

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- Docker installed on your local machine

## Why deploying on Serverless

> Serverless products are perfect for cost efficiency with a pay-as-you go model and scales very well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverless products are perfect for cost efficiency with a pay-as-you-go model and scale very well.
```

> With zero infrastructure management a lot of tools to integrate in CI/CD environments, `mdbooks` can benefits a lot of Serverless Containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With zero infrastructure management and many tools to integrate in CI/CD environments, `mdbooks` can benefit a lot of Serverless Containers.
```

## Local setup

> 1. Follow [Istallation instructions](https://rust-lang.github.io/mdBook/guide/installation.html) of mdbooks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the [installation instructions](https://rust-lang.github.io/mdBook/guide/installation.html) of mdbooks.
```

2. Run commands:
- `mdbook init my-first-book` in order to create a sample book.
- `cd my-first-book` to open the directory created by init command.

3. *(optional)* Now you can edit the content of the book to publish.

> 4. It's recommanded to test the book using the command: `mdbook test`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. It is recommended to test the book using the command: `mdbook test`.
```

## Prepare Container Registry

<Message type="note">
  We recommend using Scaleway Container Registry instead of external registries to avoid errors of rate limiting and risks regarding evolutions of CGU and pricing.
</Message>

1. Create a file named `Dockerfile` in this folder containing the following code:

```dockerfile
FROM debian:bookworm-slim

WORKDIR /app

# Copy necessary files (add if you have custom files)
COPY book.toml /app/
COPY src/* /app/src/

# Install mdbooks binary
RUN apt-get -y update; apt-get -y install curl;
RUN mkdir /home/mdbooks
RUN curl -sSL https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook/releases/download/v0.4.40/mdbook-v0.4.40-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz | tar -xz --directory=/home/mdbooks
ENV PATH="$PATH:/home/mdbooks"

# Serve the book:
# 0.0.0.0 is required to listen on public interface, otherwise mdbook will only listen for localhost
# 8080 port is used to match the Serverless Container settings.
ENTRYPOINT ["mdbook", "serve", "-n", "0.0.0.0", "-p", "8080" ]
```

> 2. Open Container Registry product on Scaleway Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open a web browser on your computer and navigate to the [Container Registry](https://console.scaleway.com/containers/) product in the Scaleway Console.
```

3. Click **Create namespace**. A namespace is used to hold the image.

<Message type="note">
  A pop-up will appear with informations to log into your Container Registry Namespace with `docker login`. This will allow to push the image later.
</Message>

4. Create the namespace and save the registry endpoint. The registry endpoint looks like `rg.<region>.scw.cloud/<namespace>`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<Message type="note">
  Refer to [How to create a namespace](/docs/containers/container-registry/how-to/create-namespace/) for detailed information about Container Registry namespace creation.
</Message>
```

> ## Build and Push

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Build and push
```

1. Run the command `docker build -t rg.<region>.scw.cloud/<namespace>/<image_name>:<tag_name> .`
* **region**: to get this information, check the namespace settings of the namespace you created.
* **image_name**: use the name you want to identify your image, for example `mdbook`.
* **tag_name**: use tags to identify the version of your image, for example `v1`.

2. Push the image:
`docker push rg.<region>.scw.cloud/<namespace>/<image_name>:<tag>`

## Deploy the Serverless Container

> 1. Create a Serverless Container Namespace. [Link to console](https://console.scaleway.com/containers/namespaces/create)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a [Serverless Container Namespace](https://console.scaleway.com/containers/namespaces/create) in the Scaleway console.
```

---
meta:
  title: Fast deployment of documentation on Serverless Containers with mdbooks
  description: Step-by-step guide to deploy mdbooks on Scaleway Serverless Containers.
content:
  h1: Fast deployment of documentation on Serverless Containers with mdbooks
  paragraph: Step-by-step guide to deploy mdbooks on Scaleway Serverless Containers.
tags: docker container deploy serverless
hero: assets/scaleway-umami.webp
categories:
  - containers
  - container-registry
dates:

>   validation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  validation: 2024-10-30
```

>   posted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  posted: 2024-10-30
```

---

> Publish modern online books, for product, API documentation, tutorials, course material or anything that requires a clean, easily navigable and customizable presentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`mdBooks` lets you publish modern online books, for product, API documentation, tutorials, course material or anything that requires a clean, easily navigable and customizable presentation.
```

This tutorial uses `mdbooks` to publish simple documentation but the main goal of this tutorial is to show how simple it is to
pick a project, package it inside an image and deploy it on Serverless Containers.

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- Docker installed on your local machine

> ## Why deploying on Serverless

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Why deploy on Serverless?
```

> Serverless products are perfect for cost efficiency with a pay-as-you-go model and scale very well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Serverless products are perfect for cost efficiency with a pay-as-you-go model, and scale very well.
```

> With zero infrastructure management and many tools to integrate in CI/CD environments, `mdbooks` can benefit a lot of Serverless Containers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With zero infrastructure management and many tools to integrate in CI/CD environments, an `mdbooks` deployment is well suited to Serverless Containers.
```

## Local setup

1. Follow the [installation instructions](https://rust-lang.github.io/mdBook/guide/installation.html) of mdbooks.

2. Run commands:
- `mdbook init my-first-book` in order to create a sample book.
- `cd my-first-book` to open the directory created by init command.

> 3. *(optional)* Now you can edit the content of the book to publish.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. *(Optional)* Edit the content of the book to publish.
```

> 4. It is recommended to test the book using the command: `mdbook test`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Test the book using the command: `mdbook test`.
```

## Prepare Container Registry

<Message type="note">
  We recommend using Scaleway Container Registry instead of external registries to avoid errors of rate limiting and risks regarding evolutions of CGU and pricing.
</Message>

1. Create a file named `Dockerfile` in this folder containing the following code:

> ```dockerfile

Reviewer 2: This whole code block needs to be indented two levels, to avoid breaking numbered steps

FROM debian:bookworm-slim

WORKDIR /app

# Copy necessary files (add if you have custom files)
COPY book.toml /app/
COPY src/* /app/src/

# Install mdbooks binary
RUN apt-get -y update; apt-get -y install curl;
RUN mkdir /home/mdbooks
RUN curl -sSL https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook/releases/download/v0.4.40/mdbook-v0.4.40-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz | tar -xz --directory=/home/mdbooks
ENV PATH="$PATH:/home/mdbooks"

# Serve the book:
# 0.0.0.0 is required to listen on public interface, otherwise mdbook will only listen for localhost
# 8080 port is used to match the Serverless Container settings.
ENTRYPOINT ["mdbook", "serve", "-n", "0.0.0.0", "-p", "8080" ]
```

> 2. Open a web browser on your computer and navigate to the [Container Registry](https://console.scaleway.com/containers/) product in the Scaleway Console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Open a web browser on your computer and navigate to the [Container Registry](https://console.scaleway.com/containers/) product in the Scaleway console.
```

3. Click **Create namespace**. A namespace is used to hold the image.

<Message type="note">

>   A pop-up will appear with informations to log into your Container Registry Namespace with `docker login`. This will allow to push the image later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  A pop-up will appear with informations to log into your Container Registry Namespace with `docker login`. This will allow to push the image later.
```
```suggestion
  A pop-up will appear with information to log into your Container Registry Namespace with `docker login`. This will allow us to push the image later.
```

Reviewer 2: This message block needs to be indented two levels as well

</Message>

4. Create the namespace and save the registry endpoint. The registry endpoint looks like `rg.<region>.scw.cloud/<namespace>`

<Message type="note">
  Refer to [How to create a namespace](/docs/containers/container-registry/how-to/create-namespace/) for detailed information about Container Registry namespace creation.
</Message>
## Build and push

1. Run the command `docker build -t rg.<region>.scw.cloud/<namespace>/<image_name>:<tag_name> .`

> * **region**: to get this information, check the namespace settings of the namespace you created.

Reviewer 2: These bullet points, and basically everything that's on a new line after a numbered step (but before the next numbered step) needs to be indented two levels

Author: Done 😸  for my curiosity, why it's required to indent after lists ? I haven't found anything in `mxd` guidelines

Reviewer 3: This specification directly comes from markdown (explanation [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/18088955/markdown-continue-numbered-list) ), otherwise it breaks the numbering :)

* **image_name**: use the name you want to identify your image, for example `mdbook`.
* **tag_name**: use tags to identify the version of your image, for example `v1`.

2. Push the image:

> `docker push rg.<region>.scw.cloud/<namespace>/<image_name>:<tag>`

Reviewer 2: indent

Author: done

## Deploy the Serverless Container

1. Create a [Serverless Container Namespace](https://console.scaleway.com/containers/namespaces/create) in the Scaleway console.
2. Configure the Serverless Containers. **Important points are:**

> * **Image**: Select the Registry namespace, Container and Tag you created before using the dropdown lists.

Reviewer 2: indent

Author: done

* **Name**: You can change the default name to use a more meaningful one.

You can keep default values of other parameters and fine-tune them later at anytime without downtime.

3. Click **Deploy container** button and wait few seconds for the deployment.

> 4. Congratulation you Serverless Container is deployed an ready. You can access it via it's **endpoint**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your Serverless Container is deployed and ready. You can access it via it's **endpoint**.
```
